ALEKS Math Assessment Exam - The University of Texas at Dallas Jump to content Jump to navigation Jump to search Provost's Homepage CourseBook my doxdox Search The Office of Undergraduate Education ALEKS Math Assessment UT Dallas uses the ALEKS Assessment to optimize the placement of students in their first math course. The ALEKS Assessment is offered by McGraw Hill, an educational knowledge and publishing company. ALEKS isn't a traditional exam. It's an assessment tool to help you find the course where you'll have the best chance to succeed. ALEKS also offers a guided learning program to help you improve your math skills and potentially improve your score. The assessment is an open format that does not use multiple choice questions; students may find the experience substantially different from many standardized examinations. The assessment is 2 hours. Only proctored assessments are valid for placement into UT Dallas math courses. WE STRONGLY URGE YOU TO BOOKMARK THIS PAGE UNTIL YOU NO LONGER NEED ALEKS. For questions email aleks@utdallas.edu. ALEKS Math Placement FAQ Do I need ALEKS? ALEKS is used as a pre-requisite for certain math courses. You can see all of the pre-requisites here, https://catalog.utdallas.edu/current/undergraduate/courses/math. You can see the ALEKS scores necessary for math placement below in the section “ALEKS Math Placement Score Table.” TSI, SAT, ACT, and A levels are not used as a math pre-requisite and cannot be used in place of ALEKS. New freshmen should have a proctored ALEKS score no later than June 1 New freshmen may be required by their school to take ALEKS including Engineering and Computer Science and Natural Sciences and Mathematics. If you are still unsure, contact your academic advisor to discuss your math needs and whether you should take ALEKS for your major, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors. Disability Accommodations Students approved for disability accommodations may be given extra time and other appropriate services. You must self-identify and request testing accommodations from the Office of Student AccessAbility (https://www.utdallas.edu/studentaccess) before working in the ALEKS assessment. OSA will need to have a request for ALEKS assessment at least 7 days before you intend to take the assessment. If approved for accommodations, you then pay for ALEKS as indicated below in “Paying for the ALEKS Assessment” and forward your receipt to the Office of Student AccessAbility BEFORE ACCESSING ALEKS. You will be provided directions and an appropriate link to ALEKS. Do not use the link to ALEKS included in your receipt unless instructed to do so. I took the AP, IB, or CLEP test If you are an incoming freshman and took the AP or IB test in May or later: Credit by exam scores are not available until at least July 5th or later which is after most of our orientations have concluded. If you need to register for a math course, we heavily encourage you to take ALEKS and not wait for exam scores. Your school may require it. Math class availability is not guaranteed, and we want you to be in the best position to register for math. Depending on math course availability you may be able to change your math courses after we have received your AP or IB test score. If you wish to discuss it further, please contact your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors. You are a continuing or transfer student and your CLEP test score hasn't arrived but registration started: Math class availability is not guaranteed, and we want you to be in the best position to register for math. If you wish to discuss it further, please contact your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors. You already have your AP, IB, or CLEP scores: Be sure you have asked the appropriate testing company to send your official scores to UTD. After your scores have been entered in Orion you may be able to select the appropriate math credit for your degree. You should consult with your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors, to be sure you select the correct credit. You may not need ALEKS but should be sure to consult with your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors, to be sure. I took dual enrollment math or have taken college math classes You are an incoming freshman and finished dual enrollment math in May or later: Be sure to have your official college transcript sent to UTD. If you need to register for a math course, we heavily encourage you to take ALEKS and not wait for your transcript. Math class availability is not guaranteed, and we want you to be in the best position to register for math. Depending on math course availability you may be able to change your math courses after we have received your transcript. If you wish to discuss it further, please contact your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors. You are an incoming freshman or transfer student and already have all of your math grades: Be sure to have your official college transcript sent to UTD. After your grades have been articulated in Orion you may be able to select the appropriate math credit for your degree. You should consult with your UTD academic advising office, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors, to be sure you select the correct credit. I need to take ALEKS Summary of Steps: Pay for ALEKS Take ALEKS unproctored for practice Use the Prep and Learning Modules Take ALEKS proctored When do you take ALEKS? Freshman should have an ALEKS score prior to orientation. Transfer and continuing students should have an ALEKS score prior to the time you want to register for math. Do you need to install any plug-ins prior to taking ALEKS? Yes. You will be instructed to download the plug-in when you log in to take the exam. If you have any trouble downloading the ALEKS plug-in, please contact ALEKS customer support at https://mhedu.force.com/aleks/s/alekscontactsupport. Useful information for you: The ALEKS Assessment is a math placement test that covers a broad spectrum of mathematics and is fully automated and adaptive to your knowledge and ability. The first questions asked will be drawn from across the curriculum and may be too easy or too hard. As the assessment proceeds, your answers will be used to give the system an idea of your knowledge, and it will gradually focus the questioning in a way appropriate to your individual skill level. By the end of the assessment, you should find the questions generally challenging but reasonable for your individual level of knowledge. The exact number of questions will vary due to the adaptive mechanism just described. Tips for you: It is likely that you will be asked questions on material you have not yet learned. On such questions it is appropriate to answer, "I don't know." However, on any question that you have familiarity with, it is important to do your best. "I don't know" is interpreted by ALEKS to mean that you do not know the topic, and this will be reflected in the assessment results. If you do not do your best on the assessment, ALEKS will underestimate your knowledge. STEP 1: Paying for the ALEKS Assessment Cost is $40. You pay through UT Dallas Marketplace; link below. Receive your payment receipt at the email address entered when paying. Your link to ALEKS is in the receipt. Your payment covers 1 unproctored attempt and 4 proctored attempts and the prep and learning modules. Proctoring is charged separately and is not part of the ALEKS payment. If you believe you might be eligible, email aleks@utdallas.edu to request a fee waiver. Requesting does not guarantee approval. Click here to register and pay for the ALEKS assessment Payment problems: You paid, but you didn't get an email receipt. How do you get one? You should have received an email receipt at the address entered when paying. Your link to ALEKS is in the receipt. Please check there as well as the junk or spam folder. Email aleks@utdallas.edu from your UTD email address if you do not find it in your inbox or spam/junk folder. You entered the wrong email address. What do you do? Email aleks@utdallas.edu from your UTD email address and provide: the date of payment name under which payment was made correct email address for receipt to be resent Problems or questions about the receipt, email aleks@utdallas.edu. STEP 2: Unproctored for practice ALEKS Assessment The first attempt is unproctored for practice. It is online only. It is best to take the unproctored attempt as if it were proctored. See Online with Honorlock in the “Proctoring Options” section below for online proctoring requirements. The attempt is 2 hours. Use this attempt to help you become comfortable with this type of environment. YOU MUST ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS TO EARN A SCORE AND MOVE FORWARD. This score cannot be used for math placement. Your score is presented immediately after answering all questions. Prep and learning modules are assigned based on the unproctored score. Prep and learning modules are available immediately after the attempt. Students must wait 48 hours before being able to take a proctored attempt. STEP 3: Prep and Learning Modules You get up to 12 months of access to the prep and learning modules. Modules are assigned based on your unproctored assessment score. Modules are available immediately after taking the unproctored attempt and not before. You are strongly encouraged to work on areas identified for review prior to taking ALEKS with a proctor. Work in the modules is not used for math placement. Additional information: You may derive a great deal of benefit from the knowledge profile that the initial assessment generates. If you did not receive the minimum score on the unproctored attempt for the desired UT Dallas mathematics course, you may use the knowledge profile to identify areas of needed review. Even if you did receive the desired minimum score on the unproctored attempt, you may find it helpful to review materials that the assessment identified as a knowledge weakness. Remember, courses at UT Dallas are challenging and the pace is demanding. Professors expect students to have a thorough knowledge of prerequisite material. STEP 4: Proctored ALEKS assessment basic information Only proctored attempts can be used for math placement. Each attempt is 2 hours. 4 proctored attempts are included in your payment. Unlike the unproctored attempt you do not have to answer all questions to get a score. Scores are presented immediately after finishing. You are strongly encouraged to work in the prep and learning modules if you did not achieve your desired score after each proctored attempt. When you earn a score you like, you may stop using ALEKS. You must wait 48 hours before being able to take another proctored attempt. Incoming freshmen should obtain a final score at least one week prior to attending freshman orientation. Your highest score is used for math placement. Scores are only valid for one year. Proctors are a third party. Payment for proctoring is NOT included in the ALEKS payment. If you are taking ALEKS online and are prompted for a password, either: You have not followed the instructions for proctoring online with Honorlock in the next section, or Your Honorlock add-on is not functioning properly, and you should contact Honorlock support for assistance. Proctoring Options Be sure you have read the previous proctored assessment section. Online with Honorlock: This option uses remote proctoring software in which a webcam scan of the assessment area and the recording of all activity during the exam is required. Find a quiet and controlled environment. Have a pencil and plenty of blank scratch paper You may not use your own calculator. ALEKS provides an online calculator. No other materials should be near you or within reach. Click here for payment, setup, and Honorlock support information. In person at the UT Dallas Testing Center: A small dry erase board and marker will be provided. You may not use your own calculator. ALEKS provides an online calculator. Click here for information regarding proctoring with the UT Dallas Testing Center. ALEKS Math Placement Score Table Your proctored ALEKS score will be incorporated into your UT Dallas student profile and used for placement purposes. Your academic advisor will have access to your ALEKS score in Orion. Your highest proctored score is used for math placement. You can view your score by logging into your ALEKS account. UT Dallas Math Course Minimum ALEKS Score Math 1306 - College Algebra Minimum ALEKS Score of 35% Required for Placement Math 1314 - College Algebra Minimum ALEKS Score of 50% Required for Placement Math 1316 - Trigonometry Minimum ALEKS Score of 50% Required for Placement Math 1325 - Applied Calculus I Minimum ALEKS Score of 70% Required for Placement Math 2306 - Analytic Geometry Minimum ALEKS Score of 70% Required for Placement Math 2312 - Precalculus Minimum ALEKS Score of 70% Required for Placement CS 2305 - Discrete Mathematics Minimum ALEKS Score of 70% Required for Placement Math 2370 - Intro MATLAB Minimum ALEKS Score of 80% Required for Placement Math 2413 - Differential Calculus Minimum ALEKS Score of 80% Required for Placement Math 2417 - Calculus I Minimum ALEKS Score of 85% Required for Placement I just finished ALEKS and have a proctored score. Why can't I register? Verify in your ALEKS account that your score is proctored. It can take up to 2 business days for proctored scores to be downloaded. You can reach out to your advising office for registration assistance before the automatic download, https://oue.utdallas.edu/undergraduate-advising/undergraduate-advisors. If it has been more than 2 business days since earning a proctored score check with your advising office for any other registration issues. Any other problems or questions about your score or registration email aleks@utdallas.edu. How can I remove the ALEKS To-Do list item? You took ALEKS: Verify in your ALEKS account that your score is proctored. It can take up to 2 business days for proctored scores to be downloaded. The ALEKS To-Do list item is auto-removed later the same day that the proctored score is downloaded. You have math credit or won't be taking math at UTD, and you do not need ALEKS: If you have already taken math, verify with your academic advisor that your transcript has been received and your math credit articulated in Orion. If you are not taking math at UTD verify your math needs with your academic advisor. Email aleks@utdallas.edu from your UTD email address to ask for the To-Do list item to be removed. ALEKS technical support Go to https://mhedu.force.com/aleks/s/alekscontactsupport for business hours, email, phone number, and live chat options. The answers I need aren't here If you looked through every section here and you are sure the answers to your questions aren't here, email aleks@utdallas.edu for assistance. Updated: November 16, 2022 Undergraduate Education Office of Undergraduate Education Contact Us Undergraduate Educationat UT Dallas Schools of Study Appealing Academic Policy Core Curriculum Placement Exams UT Dallas Math Placement ALEKS Math Assessment Exam Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Advising Overview Undergraduate Minors Guide Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) Exploratory Advising Undergraduate Advisors Undergraduate Research Experience The Exley Undergraduate Research Journal Bruce Gnade Undergraduate Student Travel Award Patti Henry Pinch Scholarship Undergraduate Research Scholar Awards Student Research Resources Student Research Resources Home Undergraduate Research Events Current Undergraduate Researchers Prospective Undergraduate Researchers Provost's Award for Faculty Excellence UTDiscovery Award Student Success Programs Comet Cupboard Comet Cents Comet Cents Overview CashCourse Comet Cents Events Financial Resources Team Members First Year Leaders Freshman Mentor Program Freshman Mentor Program Overview How to Get an FMP Mentor How to Become an FMP Mentor FMP Student Leadership Team Transfer Mentor Program Transfer Mentor Program Overview How To Get A Mentor How To Become A Mentor Student Leadership Team Pre-Professional Advising Health Professions Advising Center HPAC Home HPAC Forms & Handouts HPAC FAQ HPAC Contact Prospective Pre-Health Students Pre-Health Results and Statistics Post-Bacc Studies Current Pre-Health Students Pre-Health Experience Pre-Health Enrichment Programs Pre-Health Student Organizations Applying to Professional Schools Joint Admission Medical Program TEMRAP Pre-Law Advising Center Pre-Law Advising Center Home Pre-Law Contact Pre-Law Upcoming Events Past Event Videos Advocacy Teams Project on Innocence Seminar Law School Acceptances Student Preparation Resources Academic Preparation Credit/No Credit Options and Law School Personal Preparation Application Process Additional Resources Application Timeline Application Check List Graduation Help Desk First Generation Students Undergraduate Success Scholars VolunTIER Cultural Scholars Program Student Success Center Awards Special Awards Outstanding Undergraduate Student Award Provost's Award for Faculty Excellence in Undergraduate Research Mentoring Undergraduate Advisor of the Year Award Related Sites Hobson Wildenthal Honors College McDermott Scholars CourseBook StudentBook Current Undergraduate Catalog UTD Chess Freshman Year Experience Academic Excellence Scholarships Transfer Credit AP Credit CLEP Credit IB Credit Texas Success Initiative (TSI) About the Texas Success Initiative TSI Exemptions UT Dallas Developmental Education Office of the ProvostUT Dallas AccreditationSACSCOC (null clip target)