Apply - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply To UT Dallas If you are drawn to a blend of rigorous academics and engaging culture, we strongly encourage you to apply. To get started, choose the correct application below. Which type of applicant are you? Freshman If you will be graduating from high school soon or if you have not enrolled in any post-secondary coursework after your high school graduation, apply as a freshman. Transfer If you have attended a college or university following high school graduation and seek to complete a bachelor’s degree, you should apply as a transfer student. Graduate If you have completed at least one bachelor’s degree and seek professional certificates or a master’s or doctoral degree in your field, you should apply as a graduate student. Other Applicant Types Non-Degree Seeking If you have previously received a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent and are interested in taking undergraduate courses at UT Dallas without pursuing a degree, you must apply for admission as a non-degree-seeking student. Eligibility Non-Degree Seeking Applicants who have already completed a Bachelor’s or equivalent degreeCoursework is subject to availability, and applicants are encouraged to contact the advising department for the School they are hoping to take classes in for additional information.Students pursuing coursework in Natural Sciences and Mathematics should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment. How to Apply Complete the ApplyTexas Application for transient students, selecting ‘Undergraduate Studies’ for school choice and ‘Graduate Non-Degree – Limited Undergraduate Courses Only’ for your major choice. Also, indicate for which UT Dallas school you plan to take undergraduate-level coursework.Submit official college transcripts for institutions attended, including one reflecting degree conferral.Submit an essay detailing the coursework you wish to complete at UT Dallas.Pay the $50 application fee.If you are interested in taking graduate classes or teacher certification as a graduate, non-degree-seeking student, you must submit an application through the graduate application. Returning/Readmission If you have completed at least one semester at UT Dallas and have not been enrolled at UT Dallas within the last three long semesters (excluding summer), you should apply for readmission through ApplyTexas. Current students do not need to reapply for admission if they have been enrolled in UT Dallas classes within the last three long semesters (Fall, Spring). More information is available through the undergraduate catalog. Second Bachelor’s Degree If you have already completed an undergraduate, bachelor’s level or equivalent degree program and would like to pursue a second undergraduate program, apply as a second bachelor’s degree-seeking student. Eligibility Coursework is subject to availability, and applicants are encouraged to contact the advising department for the School they are hoping to take classes in for additional information.Students pursuing coursework in Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM) should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment. How to Apply Contact the academic department to which you are applying for more information.Students pursuing coursework within NSM should contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment.Upon acknowledgment from the academic department, complete the ApplyTexas Application for transfer students, select the program you want to pursue, and list your academic history reflecting completing an undergraduate program.Submit official college transcripts for every institution attended, including one reflecting degree conferral.Submit an essay detailing the coursework you wish to complete at UT Dallas.Pay the $50 application fee. Transient/Visiting If you currently attend another four-year institution and wish to take classes at UT Dallas for one semester only, you should apply as a transient student. Eligibility You must currently attend another U.S. institution, seeking a degree through that home institution.You must be in good academic standing at your current institution.If you have already attended UT Dallas as a transient student and wish to complete another semester, you will need to reapply as a transfer. How to Apply Complete the ApplyTexas Application for transient students, selecting ‘Undergraduate Studies’ for school choice and ‘Undergraduate Non-Degree’ for your major choice.Submit an official college transcript for the institution you currently attend.Pay the $50 application fee. Questions? If you’re unsure which application to use, contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment. Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas