Application Process - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Freshman Admissions > Application Process Freshman Admissions: Application Process Ready to begin your journey with us? Follow these steps to complete your freshman admission application. Related Pages Freshmen Dates & Deadlines (Domestic & International) Financial Aid Application October 1FAFSA and TAFSA Application OpensJanuary 15Priority Financial Aid Application Deadline Freshman Admission Application July 1Fall Admission Application OpensDecember 1Priority Admission Application Deadline*May 1Regular Application Deadline*Completed applications received by December 1 will be reviewed for the AES scholarship award. Submit your admission application. Complete and submit the online application through ApplyTexas or CommonApp. After you have submitted your application, you will receive an email from the Office of Admission and Enrollment that includes your unique, 10-digit UTD-ID and confirmation we have received your application. You will receive an additional email with your NetID and instructions on setting up your account for the first time. After your account is created, you will use your NetID and password to access the Orion Applicant Center inside Galaxy, where you can submit documentation and check your application status. Submit your SAT scores, ACT scores or indicate you elect to have your application to be reviewed without test scores. Submit your official SAT or ACT scores.SAT Code 6897 | ACT Code 4243 OR Answer ‘Yes’ to the statement ‘I request my application to be reviewedwithout SAT/ACT scores’ when completing the admission application onApplyTexas or CommonApp. Pay the application fee or submit a fee waiver form. Pay the $50 non-refundable application fee. To qualify for a fee waiver, attend Scholars’ Day or submit an approved SAT/ACT fee waiver. Submit your official transcripts. Submit your official high school transcript(s) electronically, or your official sealed high school transcript(s) by mail to the following address: The University of Texas at DallasOffice of Admission and Enrollment800 W. Campbell RoadRichardson, TX 75080-3021 After Submission Once an application is received — including all fees and required supporting documents — it can take between four to six weeks to render an admissions decision. If an application or any required documents are submitted after the stated application deadlines, a guarantee cannot be made that the application will be processed in time to render a decision before the deadline to register for classes. Information regarding regular and late class registration is available on the academic calendar. Optional Steps Submitting Supplementary Documentation While not required, all applicants are encouraged to submit supplemental materials, such as: An application essay response from either ApplyTexas or CommonAppLetter(s) of recommendation (limited to a maximum of three)ResumeOfficial college transcripts for dual credit coursesOfficial AP test scores Submit your supplementary documentation through the Orion Applicant Center inside Galaxy using the “Submit Supplemental Docs” option in the Admissions Forms folder. Official transcripts and test scores must be sent from the college/ testing agency. International Students Review our additional documentation requirements for applying as an international student. Veterans Review the Veteran and Military-Affiliated Student Checklist for applying as a veteran or military-affiliated freshman applicant. Questions? Admission Counseling Our admission counselors are here to help guide you through the entire admission process — from choosing your school and submitting your application to preparing for enrollment. Contact us or use our counselor locator tool to email your assigned UT Dallas admission counselor directly. Freshman Admissions Related Pages See All Other Applicant Types Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas