Steps After Admission - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Freshman Admissions > Steps After Admission Steps After Admission Freshman Next Steps Congratulations on your admission to UT Dallas! Now that you are a UTD-bound freshman, it is time to think about what needs to be done to ensure you have a smooth transition to your college experience. We can’t wait for you to join us! #FutureComet Let’s Make It Official! Accept Admission Offer Let us know you are coming to UTD by accepting your offer of admission. It’s easy. Just log in to your Galaxy Applicant Center. Complete To-Do List Complete pending items on your To-Do List, such as submitting transcripts. You can access your To-Do List through your Galaxy Applicant Center. Check UTD Email We will send future communications to your UTD email address. Don’t miss out — be sure to check it regularly. Before Orientation Apply for financial aid and scholarships. Register for Freshman Orientation and complete the pre-orientation online module through eLearning. Complete the immunization requirement. Complete the Texas Success Initiative requirement. Complete the ALEKS Math Placement Assessment. Apply for housing. During Orientation Meet with academic advising and discuss courses and majors. Complete course selections and registration. Before the First Day of Classes Submit official transcripts showing your final grades. International Students Complete additional requirements for: All international visa types. Register for the International Student Orientation. Submit the results from your tuberculosis test to the Student Health Center. Tuberculosis (TB) screening is required for all persons born outside the United States, regardless of the status of their application. It may take several days for your medical provider to receive your test results, so be sure to schedule the test well before the date you plan to register for classes. Apply for a passport with your home country’s government. Review the travel guide for procedures needed to enter the U.S. and how to travel to Dallas. F and J visa types only. F-1 and J-1 visa holders are required to attend International Student Orientation. Submit documents to receive an I-20 (or DS2019) from the International Student Services Office (ISSO). Use your I-20 (or DS2019) and passport to apply for an F-1 Visa or J-1 Visa. Register for Classes During your Freshman Orientation session, your academic advisor will begin the class registration process with you. Visit the Freshman Orientation FAQ to learn more about registering for classes, holds and to-do items in your student account. Academic Advising Freshman Orientation Office of the Registrar Other Things To Explore Paying for Classes Review the course catalog and tuition rate information. Admitted students may obtain a Tuition Plan Estimate through the Bursar’s Office. Payment deadlines for each term are posted on the Academic Calendar. Student Success The Student Success Center is here to help you achieve academic success. They offer mentoring programs, review sessions, mentoring, tutoring, workshops and much more. We’ve got your back! Comet Camp Learn about college life at Comet Camp, where you’ll meet new friends and get an inside track on all things UTD from current students. Technology Resources The UT Dallas OIT team is your go-to resource for campus technology questions. Check out the TechKnowledgy Bar in the Student Union that can help with the Galaxy Portal, CometNet (Wi-Fi) and more. UTD App Be sure to download the UTD Mobile App for easy access to campus resources and all things student life. The best part is that it’s completely customizable to fit your needs. Get Involved There’s no shortage of activities outside the classroom with more than 350 student organizations, such as academics, cultural and social groups, sororities, fraternities and club sports. Getting Around Parking and Transportation Services provide resources for students to get around campus and beyond. Learn about the Comet Cruiser, Comet Cab, discounted DART rail passes and more. Career Center From personalized career advising to career fairs and everything in between, the University Career Center is ready to help assist you as you prepare for your future. Comets to the Core During your first semester, you’ll join your fellow incoming freshmen and participate in Comets to the Core — a required project to promote social responsibility and community engagement. Questions? Our admission staff is here to answer your questions. Contact us or meet with an admission counselor. We’re here to help! Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas