Freshman Orientation - Freshman Year Experience | The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Freshman Year Experience Search for: Freshman Year Experience Programs Programs Overview Comet Camp 2022 Events Cometline To Success Freshman Orientation Orientation Overview Freshman Orientation 2022 Freshman Orientation FAQ Be An Orientation Leader Orientation Executive Team Comet Families GPA Calculator Search for: Freshman Orientation Student Transition Programs strives to create an inclusive and welcoming environment for all students, families, and guests as we provide the framework for students to learn and develop, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Our office respects the profound ways that our community members of various cultures, backgrounds, and identities enrich our university community. Below are resources where you can learn more about diversity and inclusion on our campus, as well as assistance if you are struggling. The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Multicultural Center The Galerstein Gender Center The Counseling Center Freshman Orientation is an exciting first step to becoming part of the UT Dallas community. This program gives an overview of opportunities and resources available to you on campus. During Freshman Orientation you will have the chance to: Meet other students and make new friends Meet with academic advisors and discuss classes and majors Complete course selections and registration Learn about academic expectations Learn about the University’s services and resources Familiarize yourself with the UT Dallas campus Meet with administrators Freshman Orientation Registration Registration for Freshman Orientation programs will open in the Galaxy portal Mid-February 2023. If you need to sign up for the Honors College Orientation, please contact freshmanorientation@utdallas.edu for more information. Freshman Pre-Orientation Online Module (Opens March 2023) Before you attend Freshman Orientation, you must complete the Freshman Pre-Orientation Online Module in eLearning. The module will cover important information about UT Dallas. If you recently accepted your offer of admission, it can take 7-10 days before you have access to eLearning. Follow these steps to access the module: 1. Log into the UT Dallas eLearning site with your NetID and password. 2. Under My Organizations select Freshman Orientation. 3. Select the Freshman Pre-Orientation Online Module and follow the prompts, complete this assessment with a score of 100%. Placement Tests All incoming freshmen are required to take a math placement exam in order to enroll in any Mathematics course at UT Dallas. Please go to the Undergraduate Education Math Placement website for more information. Students with majors in the School of Engineering and Computer Science, the School of Natural Science and Math, or the School of Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication may need to or want to take Computer Science courses. Please read this information about Computer Science placement testing. Any student enrolling in a language course at UT Dallas needs to visit the School of Arts and Humanities’ Language Placement website for more information. Texas Success Initiative (TSI) If you have received an automated email regarding the Texas Success Initiative (TSI), there is a possibility you will need to comply with the State of Texas TSI mandate. TSI does not affect your admission to UT Dallas, but it can affect course placement and registration. If necessary, you will need to take the TSI Assessment. The test can be taken virtually prior to your orientation. An email will be sent with detailed information how to register for testing. Find more information about the Texas Success Initiative. Related Topics Orientation FAQ Orientation Leaders Comet Camp Multicultural Student Welcome Get Connected Contact Student Transition Programs Class of 2026 Instagram Orientation Leaders Instagram I Want To Be An OL The University of Texas at Dallas Freshman Year Experience