University Housing - University Housing | The University of Texas at Dallas
Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Footer
University Housing
Search for:
University Housing
Housing Options
Overview
University Commons
Canyon Creek Heights
University Village
Housing Availability
Resources
Overview
My Housing Portal
First-Year Housing
Returning Resident Application
Resident Handbook
Gender Inclusive Housing
Residential Technology
Frequently Asked Questions
Departments
Overview
Residential Life
Living Learning Communities
Residential Camps and Conferences Services & Guest/Intern Housing
Operations
Contact
Search for:
Residence Hall West
University Village
Canyon Creek Heights
First-Year Priority Application Deadline
The priority application deadline for first-year students is April 15, 2023. All completed applications received prior to that deadline receive priority based on the date of application. After April 15, consideration is given based on the date of application and proximity to campus.
Renewal & Sign Up for Returning Residents
Eligible returning residents may renew their assignment for the next academic year through the Renewal process. Returning residents who do not renew their spaces may apply for next year’s housing through the Sign Up process. Learn more: Returning Resident Application page.
RenewalJan. 17-20, 2023
Sign Up Intent to Sign Up: Jan. 30-Feb 3, 2023 Roommate Groups: Feb. 13-17, 2023Room Selection Begins: Feb. 27, 2023
Non-First Year 2022-2023 Housing Availability
View the current housing availability for the 2022-2023 academic year.
Housing Agreement Changes & Dates
View the 2022-2023 University Housing Terms and Conditions. (PDF)
The following dates are considered the Term of your Agreement if your University Housing Terms and Conditions is received and accepted by University Housing and you are provided with a housing assignment:
Summer Only Agreement: May 15, 2022 – July 31, 2022 or 48 hours after written cancellation notice is provided, whichever comes first
Academic Year Agreement: Aug. 22, 2022 – May 13, 2023
Mid-Year Spring Only Agreement: TBD – May 13, 2023
Other Period Contract: Start date through May 13, 2023
University Housing strives to provide an exceptional residential experience by delivering educational opportunities and supportive services that foster diverse engagement, individual growth and community belonging.
Apply Now!
University Housing offers on-campus living options for UT Dallas students who appreciate the comfort of home while being within walking distance to class.
Important Updates
12/9/2022 Click here to view our Winter Break front desk hours.
View additional updates
University Commons
Residence Halls
University Commons residence halls feature three-bedroom suites, recreation areas, large communal spaces and study lounges. Available to first-year students.
Learn More
University Village
Unfurnished Apartments
University Village apartments offer a variety of floor plans and amenities. Available to sophomores through seniors and graduate students.
Learn More
Canyon Creek Heights
Furnished Apartments
Canyon Creek Heights apartments offer a variety of floor plans and amenities. Available to sophomores through seniors and graduate students.
Learn More
First-Year Housing
First-year students are students who graduate high school in May or June prior to their first fall semester at UT Dallas. First-year students who choose to live on campus will be assigned to live in University Commons. View the First-Year Housing webpage for more information.
Incoming first-year students also have the opportunity to participate in our Living Learning Communities (LLC). Participation in LLCs is limited, and communities are filled on a first-come, first-served basis.
Gender Inclusive Housing
University Housing welcomes students of all gender identities and expressions and is committed to providing an equitable and inclusive community for all residents.
Please contact University Housing to learn about all available housing options. It is our goal to provide an affirming and non-discriminatory housing educational experience. Read additional Information on gender inclusive housing.
Family Housing
Please inquire with University Housing for available family housing options. There are limited facilities within University Housing that are available for UT Dallas students with spouses and children.
These spaces are offered on a first-come, first-served basis. We cannot guarantee family housing options will be available. All persons residing in a family housing unit are required to sign a full apartment housing agreement. Canyon Creek Heights and University Commons are single bedroom housing options for UT Dallas students and are not available as family housing.
Summer Guest Housing
Residential Camps & Conference Services offers housing to summer camps, conferences, corporate interns, and non-UTD student summer researchers.
Off-Campus Housing
The Dallas Off-Campus Housing database is provided as a service to The University of Texas at Dallas community and for informational purposes only.
By providing this link, UT Dallas does not guarantee the quality, performance, completeness or accuracy of the information provided in the database or by the database’s host, Off Campus Partners, LLC. Similarly, UT Dallas does not expressly or implicitly endorse, approve or warrant any of the information in this database or properties whose information is available in this database, or any of the business practices of these properties or Off Campus Partners, LLC. In addition, UT Dallas expressly disclaims any and all responsibility for any claims that may arise with regard to any user’s use of this database and any properties, business practices, information or other matters referenced therein. UT Dallas is also not responsible for any disputes arising between or among a user, Off Campus Partners, LLC, and any participating properties as the result of user’s use of this database. Users should exercise their own respective good judgment when evaluating the information contained in the database, including any properties listed.
Visit the Dallas Off-Campus Housing Service.
You will be leaving the UT Dallas website.
The University of Texas at Dallas
University Housing
955 North Loop Road
Richardson, Texas 75080
972-883-7430
