International Applicants - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Apply > International Applicants International Applicants Related Pages International students are valued members of the UT Dallas community and are eligible to apply for undergraduate admission. Those interested in graduate studies should contact the graduate academic department of interest directly. For immigration advising and benefits processing, please refer to the International Student Services Office. In addition to the requirements for freshmen and transfer applicants, the additional steps listed below might be required for students who have attended a secondary or post-secondary institution outside of the U.S. If you have questions about applying as an international student, contact the Office of Admission and Enrollment. English Proficiency Requirement English proficiency is required for all international student applicants from non-native English-speaking countries. This requirement is met if an applicant completes one of the following options: Option 1 Attended three or more years at a U.S. high school and graduated or will graduate. Option 2 Is from a country whose government language is English and whose education has been solely in English. Option 3 Scores 560 or above on the Evidence-Based Reading and Writing (EBRW) section of the SAT or 21 or above on the English section of the ACT. SAT and ACT scores are valid for five years from the testing date. Option 4 Completes an academic associates degree (AA, AS, or an AGS) from a Texas college, and Completes the equivalent of ENGL 1301 and ENGL 1302, obtaining a B or better in both classes, and Complete core coursework. Option 5 Completes 42 or more transferable credit hours from a U.S. institution, and Completes the equivalent of ENGL 1301 and ENGL 1302, obtaining a B or better in both classes, AND Achieves a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or better. Approved Testing Agencies and Equivalent Scores TestPassDuolingo English Test105IELTS6.5Completion of Level 112 at an ELS Language CenterPassPTE67TOEFL iBT (Internet Based), including the Home Edition and Paper Edition80* Submitting Official Academic Documents If your documents are issued in a language other than English, you must submit a certified English translation of your academic documents. The translations must be from either the academic institution or a certified translation company. Freshmen Provide official, attested photocopies or certified copies of all high school transcripts, mark sheets or examination certificates showing the completion of 9th-12th grade graduation equivalent with grades/marks earned. Submit an official copy of final examinations taken at the end of the secondary school program, such as GCE ordinary-level and advanced-level examinations, school leaving certificates and matriculation exams. The Foreign Credentials for International Freshman Admission PDF may assist in identifying required documents by country of origin. Transfer If you have completed post-secondary coursework beyond high school from a college or university recognized by that country’s Ministry of Education, the following must accompany the application: Official attested photocopies or certified copies of all previous university transcripts or semester mark sheets showing subjects completed, grades earned and dates of courses taken. Consolidated mark sheets are not acceptable. If you have achieved a GCE A Level examination certificate, please provide an official, attested copy. Official attested photocopies or certified copies of the degree certificate or diploma showing the type of degree and date earned. Copies of course syllabi or course descriptions. The Foreign Credentials for International Transfer Admission PDF may assist in identifying required documents by country of origin. Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas