Orientations - Student Transition Programs | The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Skip to Footer Student Transition Programs Search for: Student Transition Programs Orientations Orientations Overview Freshman Transfer Students International Students Graduate Students Foster Care Alumni Program Multicultural Student Welcome Contact Search for: Orientations All new undergraduate students are required to attend an orientation. Each program is designed for your specific needs. Student Transition Programs offers orientations throughout the year for incoming students: Freshman Orientation Freshman Orientation is required for all new undergraduate students graduating from high school in the past calendar year. If you are an incoming freshman, attending orientation is one of the first steps to getting started at UT Dallas! Transfer Orientation Students transferring from another college or university are required to attend Transfer Orientation. View a list of important items to complete prior to coming to campus. Graduate Student Orientation Graduate Student Orientation is an optional program for new graduate students. International Student Orientation International Student Orientation is required if you are an F-1 or J-1 visa holder, enrolling at UT Dallas for the first time. International undergraduate students are strongly encouraged to attend Freshman Orientation or Transfer Orientation. A special meeting at these orientations will fulfill your International Student Orientation requirement. International Student Orientation is offered by the Office of International Cultural Programs. Orientation Leaders The Orientation Leader program maintains the standards of excellence of and connects new students to UT Dallas by providing memorable first-year experiences, an inclusive welcoming environment, social programming, leadership opportunities and a sense of personal involvement in the campus community. Through insightful leadership and the cultivation of spirit and tradition, the Orientation Leader program is the catalyst for new student development and success. If you are interested in applying for the Orientation Leader program, please visit us on Facebook. Resources for New Students If you have not applied to UT Dallas, please visit the Office of Admissions and Enrollment. If you have been admitted, please refer to the “Steps After Admission” page for freshmen students or transfer students for more information. New students who are veterans, current military members, military spouses and dependents, and ROTC cadets should visit the Military and Veteran Center for additional resources. Incoming students planning to enroll in any mathematics, computer science or foreign language may be required to take a placement test. The University of Texas at Dallas Student Transition Programs Student Services Addition (SSA) 14.431 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. 972-883-6171