UT Dallas - Check Your Application Status Info For Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Family & Visitors DFW Community Resources Galaxy Login eLearning CourseBook Email Map Events Academic Calendar News Directory Library EZPay Help Desk Human Resources Accessibility Make a Gift Search MENU About Us Academics Admissions Costs, Scholarships & Aid Campus Life Research Info For Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Family & Visitors DFW Community Resources Galaxy Login eLearning CourseBook Email Map Events Academic Calendar News Directory Library EZPay Help Desk Human Resources Accessibility Make a Gift About Us Academics Admissions Costs, Scholarships & Aid Campus Life Research COVID-19 & MPOX UPDATES COVID-19 & MPOX UPDATES The University of Texas at Dallas is closely monitoring the outbreaks of COVID-19 and mpox. Find updates on this and other resources on our community health page. Community Health The University of Texas at Dallas > Application Status Application Status Galaxy NetID Help Desk JUMP TO Check Your Application StatusApplication StatusViewing Items Required for AdmissionTo-Do List Item StatusesView Admission Communications Check Your Application Status To check your application status, go to your Applicant Center. Application Status Your application status is displayed in the My Application tile. The status of your application will be updated to reflect its progress through the admission process. Click on the information icon for more detailed information regarding your status. Below are the Application Statuses that you may see based on your level: Undergraduate Applicants: Application Received: The University of Texas at Dallas has received your application for admission.Admission Review: Your application is under review. Please submit any pending To-Do List items to complete your application.Application Complete: Your application is complete and under final review for admission.Additional Documents Required: After initial review, additional documents are needed to process your application. Please check your To-Do List for more information.Data Change: We have received your Change of Application Request. Your application term has been updated.Plan Change: We have received your Change of Application Request. Your major has been updated.Program Change: We have received your Change of Application Request and your program level has been updated or your application has been administratively changed.Undergraduate Committee Review: Your application is being reviewed by the Undergraduate Admissions Committee.Transfer Credit Evaluation: Your transfer credit is being evaluated for admission.Admit/Deny: A final decision has been made on your application.Reconsideration: Your reconsideration request has been received, and your application is under review. Please submit any pending To-Do List items to complete your application. Graduate Applicants: Application Received: The University of Texas at Dallas has received your application for admission.Application Complete: Your application is complete and is ready for review by your department.Additional Documents Required: After initial review, additional documents are needed to process your admission decision. Please check your To-Do List and submit any pending items.Awaiting Documents: Additional documents are needed to complete your application. Please submit any pending items on your To-Do List if you have not already done so.Change of App Term Recommended: The program is no longer accepting applicants for the semester that you applied to. Please fill out a Change of Application Request to be considered for a subsequent semester.Change of Program Recommended: The program recommends that you change your application program / level. Please fill out a Change of Application Request to be considered for the new program.Data Change: We have received your Change of Application Request. Your application term has been updated.Graduate Committee Review: Your application is being reviewed by the Graduate Admissions Committee.Graduate Final Review: The graduate program department has made a decision on your application and the decision is pending final review by the Office of Admission and Enrollment.Pending Review: Your application and documents are being processed for initial admission review and to determine if additional documents are required to complete your application.Plan Change: We have received your Change of Application Request. Your major has been updated.Program Change: We have received your Change of Application Request and your program level has been updated or your application has been administratively changed.Admit/Deny: A final decision has been made on your application.Reconsideration: Your reconsideration request has been received, and your application is under review. Please submit any pending To-Do List items to complete your application. Viewing Items Required for Admission The To-Do List shows the status of your documents that are required for admission review. To-Do List Item Statuses: Requirement Completed: We have received and processed your document and no further action is required at this time.Invalid Copy Received – please send a photo copy or PDF of your official document: The document provided is not valid for admissions purposes. Please submit a new copy of this document. Online printouts, grade reports, unofficial downloaded transcripts, etc. are not acceptable.Required: The required document is still missing or has not been processed. Please allow additional time if you recently submitted this document.Unofficial Copy Received – Official Copy Required: An unofficial copy of your document has been received. Official documents will be required prior to enrollment.A New Copy is Needed – the initial document was not legible: The document provided is illegible and not acceptable for admission purposes. Please provide a new legible copy of this document.Requirement Waived: The requirement for this document has been waived and no further action is required.Requirement Met: The requirement for this item has been satisfied and no further action is required. Viewing Admission Communications You may view communications sent to you by the Office of Admission and Enrollment using the Communications tile. 800 W. Campbell RoadRichardson, Texas 75080-3021 972-883-2111 Copyright Information © The University of Texas at DallasQuestions or comments about this page? Stay Connected with UT Dallas Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Resources Emergency PreparednessFormsCampus CarryCampus PoliceRequired linksTobacco-Free CampusUT SystemTexas Veterans PortalWork at UT DallasParkingNondiscrimination & Title IXOrg. ChartA-Z IndexStudent AchievementsHEERF ReportingCounseling/Mental HealthSafetyHazing PreventionPublic Course and Syllabus InformationPrivacy PolicyLand Acknowledgement