Transfer Scholarships - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Affordability > Transfer Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Transfer students who are Texas residents at the time of admission are considered for scholarship awards based on incoming transfer GPA and/or membership in select organizations. Students studying at the Texas Instruments Plaza. Comet Transfer Scholarship Transfer applicants are reviewed automatically for the Comet Transfer Scholarship when admitted. To be considered, students must be a Texas resident at the time of admission and have between 30–90 transferrable credit hours. Transferable GPAFull Time Award1Part-Time Award1Renewable?3.75 – 4.00$1,500$750Yes3.50 – 3.74$1,000$500Yes3.25 – 3.49$500$250Yes3.00 – 3.24$500$250No 1 Per semester award amount based on available funding. Eligibility Requirements Awarded to incoming transfer students for fall or spring semesters.Must be a Texas resident at the time of admission.Must have earned at least 30, but no more than 90, transferable semester credit hours. A minimum of six of those hours must have been completed after high school graduation, excluding the summer immediately following high school graduation.Must have a cumulative transferable GPA of 3.0 or higher at the time of admission to be considered.May be used in addition to other grants, scholarships, or loans.Scholarship awards are subject to the availability of funds. Renewal Requirements Be admitted and continuously enrolled in an undergraduate degree-seeking program at UT Dallas.Certain levels of the Comet Transfer and PTK Scholarships may be renewable for up to six consecutive semesters at the original award amount.Successfully complete a minimum of 12 hours for full-time or six hours for part-time enrollment per semester at UT Dallas.Maintain a cumulative 3.00 GPA or higher while receiving this scholarship.Maintain status as a Texas resident. Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship (PTK) Transfer applicants are reviewed automatically for the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship when admitted. Transferable GPAFull Time Award1Part-Time Award1Renewable?3.5 – 4.00$500$250Yes 1 Per semester award amount based on available funding. Eligibility Requirements Awarded to incoming transfer students for fall or spring semesters.Proof of PTK membership must be submitted to the Office of Financial Aid soon after applying for admission. Proof of membership can include any of the following:A copy of an active PTK membership card.A current PTK certificate.An official letter from a PTK advisor verifying membership.Must be a Texas resident at the time of admission.Must have earned at least 30, but no more than 90, transferable semester credit hours. A minimum of six of those hours must have been completed after high school graduation, excluding the summer immediately following high school graduation.Must have a cumulative transferable GPA of 3.5 or higher at the time of admission to be considered.May be used in addition to other grants, scholarships or loans.Scholarship awards are subject to the availability of funds. Renewal Requirements Be admitted and continuously enrolled in an undergraduate degree-seeking program at UT Dallas.Certain levels of the Comet Transfer and PTK Scholarships may be renewable for up to six consecutive semesters at the original award amount.Successfully complete a minimum of 12 hours for full-time or six hours for part-time enrollment per semester at UT Dallas.Maintain a cumulative 3.00 GPA or higher while receiving this scholarship.Maintain status as a Texas resident. Diversity Scholars Program The Diversity Scholars Program awards scholarships to both freshman and transfer students who have a record of academic excellence in high school or community college and show significant financial need. Recipients of this scholarship also receive academic support from program staff to assist them in successfully transitioning to UT Dallas. Visit the program’s website to learn more about eligibility requirements and how to apply for this scholarship. Additional Scholarship Opportunities UT Dallas awards millions of dollars in scholarships each year to incoming students. Some awards are automatic while many require an application and are offered through a variety of sources. Visit our Financial Aid website to learn more about additional scholarship opportunities. Questions? For questions regarding transfer scholarships, please contact the Financial Aid office at 972-883-2941 or financial-aid@utdallas.edu. Transfer Admissions Financial Aid Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas