Transfer Orientation - Transfer Student Services – Student Transition Programs – UT Dallas I am a →Transfer StudentSophomoreJuniorSenior Transfer Orientation Orientation FAQs Tau Sigma National Honor Society Campus Resources Contact Us Student Transition Programs strives to create an inclusive and welcoming environment for all students, families, and guests as we provide the framework for students to learn and develop, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Below are resources where you can learn more about diversity and inclusion on our campus, as well as assistance if you are struggling. Undergraduate Transfer Orientation Congratulations on your admission to UT Dallas! One of your first steps toward a successful transition to UT Dallas is to complete Transfer Orientation. Registration for Summer/Fall 2023 admits is open now. Please contact us with any questions via email at transferorientation@utdallas.edu. Transfer Orientation Registration Transfer Orientation will share important university policies, information, and resources for connecting with the campus community. As part of Transfer Orientation, incoming students will work with academic advising to begin the class registration process. Follow the instructions below to view available dates and register for orientation. Go to the Galaxy Portal and log in with your NetID and password Under Orion Self-Service, click on Applicant Center Click on Transfer Orientation Center. The next screen will show the Transfer Orientation FAQ page, please review these. On the left, click the Transfer Orientation Center tab. Click on the Register for Transfer Orientation link Follow the on-screen instructions to select from available dates and submit payment. The fee for orientation is $50. Your Transfer Orientation registration request will be cancelled if correct payment is not immediately received. Transfer Orientation Online Module Before you attend Transfer Orientation, you must complete the Transfer Orientation Module in eLearning. This module will share important information over university policies, procedures, and resources. To complete the required eLearning module: Log into the UT Dallas eLearning site with your NetID and password Under My Organizations, select Transfer Orientation Select the Transfer Orientation Module Review the content and complete the assessment with a score of 100% Orientation Communication Students who register to attend Transfer Orientation will receive session information by email. All orientation email communication will be sent to the student’s UT Dallas email address. You can set up your NetID and password here, and find more information on accessing your student email here. If you are having trouble with your NetID or email please contact the UT Dallas Help Desk. Resources and Info Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Multicultural Center The Galerstein Gender Center The Student Counseling Center © The University of Texas at Dallas Student Affairs Dean of Students Student Programs Student Transition Programs