Criteria - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Transfer Admissions > Criteria Transfer Admissions: Criteria You are considered a transfer student if you have previously completed college-level coursework at an accredited institution — excluding the summer following high school graduation. Applications are accepted for the fall, spring and summer semesters from students in good standing at their higher education institutions. If you are currently enrolled in high school and also attending a college/university and you will not complete any college-level coursework after the summer after your high school graduation, you should apply for freshman admission. Related Pages Transfer Dates & Deadlines Financial Aid Applications October 1FAFSA and TAFSA Applications OpenJanuary 15Priority Financial Aid Application Deadline Domestic Admission Application July 1Fall SemesterNovember 1Spring SemesterMay 1All Summer Sessions International Student Application May 1Fall SemesterOctober 1Spring SemesterMarch 1All Summer Sessions Admission Review Criteria All applicants are reviewed individually and holistically. Consideration is given to the following factors: Cumulative GPA and overall academic coursework and performance.Preparation for and ability to be successful in intended major. Information provided in optional supplemental materials. We strongly encourage all applicants to submit supplemental materials, including:A resume.A response to an ApplyTexas application essay prompt.Letter(s) of recommendation (limited to a maximum of three).ApplyTexas application essay (Option C). Assured Admission Criteria Applicants are eligible for assured transfer admission by meeting one of the following criteria options: Option 1 Forty-two (42) or more transferable credit hours.A minimum cumulative transferable GPA of 3.0 or greater on a 4.0 scale.Fewer than 90 cumulative attempted hours between all attended institutions of higher education.Applicant must be in good standing with the last college or university attended. Option 2 A Comet Connection member with a completed AA/AS/AAT.A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 or greater on a 4.0 scale.Applicant must be in good standing with the last college or university attended. Option 3 Qualify for admission under section 51.8035 of the Texas Education Code. To take advantage of this option, you can indicate within the Apply Texas application that you qualify for automatic admission as a transfer applicant based on the following criteria: graduated from a Texas or U.S. Department of Defense high school in the top 10 percent of my class within the last three years and have completed the core curriculum at a Texas junior college or lower division institution (e.g., community college). Applicants who check yes to the question within the application will be required to submit an official copy of their high school transcript as part of the transfer application file to ensure that all law provisions are met. International Applicants International applicants must meet the criteria for transfer admission and additional steps such as satisfying the English proficiency requirement. Be sure to review the international apply webpage for a list of additional required materials for a complete application. International applicants must meet the criteria for transfer admission and additional steps, such as satisfying the English proficiency requirement. Be sure to review the International Applicant’s webpage for a list of additional requirements to complete your application. Additional Requirements Questions? Admission Counseling Our admission counselors are here to help guide you through the entire admission process — from choosing your school and submitting your application to preparing for enrollment. Contact us or use our counselor locator tool to email your assigned UT Dallas admission counselor directly. Transfer Admissions Related Pages See All Other Applicant Types Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas