Application Process - Office of Admission and Enrollment | The University of Texas at Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Search MENU Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator Apply Request Info Contact a Counselor Home Freshman Freshman Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Steps After Admission Transfer Transfer Admissions Criteria Application Process Deadlines and Fees Timeline Transferring Credits Comet Connection Steps After Admission Affordability Affordability Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Visit Visit UT Dallas Tours Scholars’ Day Discover UTD Preview Friday Contact Contact Us Counselor Locator UT Dallas > Office of Admission and Enrollment > Transfer Admissions > Application Process Transfer Admissions: Application Process Applying to UT Dallas has the potential to change your life. Are you ready to begin your journey with us? Related Pages Transfer Dates & Deadlines Financial Aid Applications October 1FAFSA and TAFSA Applications OpenJanuary 15Priority Financial Aid Application Deadline Domestic Admission Application July 1Fall SemesterNovember 1Spring SemesterMay 1All Summer Sessions International Student Application May 1Fall SemesterOctober 1Spring SemesterMarch 1All Summer Sessions Submit Your Admission Application Complete and submit the online application through ApplyTexas. After you have submitted your application, you will receive an email from the Office of Admission and Enrollment that includes your unique, 10-digit UTD-ID and confirmation we have received your application. You will receive an additional email with your NetID and instructions on setting up your account for the first time. After your account is created, you will use your NetID and password to access the Orion Applicant Center inside Galaxy, where you can submit documentation and check your application status. Pay the Application Fee or Submit a Fee Waiver Request Pay the $50 non-refundable application fee or submit an application fee waiver located in the Orion Applicant Center inside Galaxy under the Admissions Forms folder. Qualifying fee waivers can be obtained through NACAC, by providing proof of military services and/or attending either Preview Friday or a Scholars’ Day event. Submit Official Transcripts Submit electronically, or mail sealed, official transcripts from all colleges and universities previously attended to the following address. The University of Texas at DallasThe Office of Admission and Enrollment800 W. Campbell RoadRichardson, TX 75080-3021 Bachelor Degree Holders The application process and requirements for admission to UT Dallas vary depending on your academic history and the courses you want to take. Review the applicant types to determine the best route to take. International Students Review our additional documentation requirements for applying as an international student. Veterans Review the Veteran and Military-Affiliated Student Checklist for applying as a veteran or military-affiliated transfer applicant. Questions? Admission Counseling Our admission counselors are here to help guide you through the entire admission process — from choosing your school and submitting your application to preparing for enrollment. Contact us or use our counselor locator tool to email your assigned UT Dallas admission counselor directly. Transfer Admissions Related Pages See All Other Applicant Types Contact Us Office of Admission and Enrollmentadmission@utdallas.edu 972-883-2270Meet with a Counselor Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube View more social accounts Quick Links Admissions FormsFinancial AidPublicationsRegistrar © The University of Texas at Dallas