
International Student Orientation
The Intercultural Programs (ICP) Team congratulates you on your admission and welcomes you to UTD! International Student Orientation provides valuable information to ease your transition to university life.
International Student Orientation is mandatory for all F and J graduate international students and exchange students and is optional as a resource for freshman and transfer students. International undergraduate freshman and transfer students are strongly encouraged to attend their mandatory Freshman and Transfer orientation respectively.
International students learn about services, guidelines, and culture through International Student Orientation to accomplish successfully their educational purpose in the U.S.
Additionally, optional campus customized Tours & Presentations and Virtual Information Sessions are available to complement the International Student Orientation. Also, ICP provides recommendations and relevant announcements to enhance your successful arrival to UTD and participation in the International Student Orientation (see below).
ICP recommends to download the UTD mobile application, which is customizable to meet student’s needs. Once in the app, students are welcome to look for the ICP tile in the Student Life section and get important information about International Student Orientation and its resources.
For questions regarding enrollment options in the event of travel restrictions, please contact your graduate or undergraduate program advisor.
International Student Orientation
International Student Orientation is a great opportunity to meet and interact with peers, staff, and leaders. Students are required to complete successfully the International Student Orientation, including the online Pre-Arrival Modules. The Pre-Arrival Modules are a pre-requisite to attend the in-person International Student Orientation.
Summer & fall 2023
Pre-Arrival Modules
Objective
Students will obtain guidance and resources that will be helpful prior to their arrival in the U.S. and to the UT Dallas campus by completing the Pre-Arrival Modules.
Format
Online through eLearning (not live). You will receive a certificate when you have successfully completed all the modules. You do not need to send us proof of completion.
Dates
Summer 2023: students must complete the Pre–Arrival Modules between April 24, 2023 (8 a.m. – CST) and May 23, 2023 (by 11 p.m. CST).
Fall 2023: students must complete the Pre–Arrival Modules between July 1, 2023 (8 a.m. – CST) and August 18, 2023 (by 11 p.m. CST).
How to Access
Navigate to eLearning and login with your Net-ID and password.
Under My Organizations, find and click on Pre-Arrival Modules for International Students
Click on Pre-Arrival Modules to begin.
Notes:(a) It is recommended you use Google Chrome or Firefox as your internet browser. (b) If you have yet not created your UT Dallas Net ID and password, do so at the Net ID website. (c) Effective Monday, May 23, 2022, DUO authentication will be required for students who have not enrolled in academic courses.
In-Person Orientation
Objective
After completing the Pre-Arrival Modules, students will obtain guidance and helpful resources to start their academic and cultural journey at UT Dallas with success by attending International Student Orientation.
Format
In-Person
Location and Dates
Choose only one session according to student’s first semester at UT Dallas:
DateTimeLocationCheck-inInternational Student Orientation (ISO) AppetizersInternational Student Orientation (ISO) BuffetRegistrationStatusSummer: Wednesday, May 17, 20232:00-5:00pmStudent Union, Galaxy A, B, and C12:30-1:30pm12:30 – 2:00 p.m. at Student Union, Galaxy A, B, and CTo Be Announced (TBA)TBAFall: Tuesday, August 1, 20232:00-5:30pmATEC Auditorium12:30-1:30pm12:30 – 2:00 p.m. at ATEC lobbyTBATBAFall: Tuesday, August 8, 20232:00-5:30pmATEC Auditorium12:30-1:30pm12:30 – 2:00 p.m. at ATEC lobbyTBATBAFall: Tuesday, August 15, 2023 2:00-5:30pmATEC Auditorium12:30-1:30pm12:30 – 2:00 p.m. at ATEC lobbyTBATBAFall: Friday, August 18, 20232:00-5:30pmATEC Auditorium12:30-1:30pm12:30 – 2:00 p.m. at ATEC lobbyTBATBA
How to Access
Register via Galaxy on or after [date to be announced]. View registration instructions (pdf)
Optional Tours and Presentation
New international students are welcome to participate in exclusive tours and presentations in partnership with the McDermott Library, Office of Information Technology, University Recreation, and Texas Department of Public Safety. Hosts will offer prizes, giveaways, and more to attendees. Registration is not required. Consult details in table below.
Objective
Students will learn from campus and external stakeholders customized and practical guidance to smooth their transition to the UT Dallas community.
Format
In-Person
Dates and Activities
DateTimeActivityLocationFriday, August 11, 202310-11amMcDermott Library TourMcDermott Library Main Lobby Friday, August 11, 202311:30am-12:30pmOffice of Information Technology (OIT) PresentationStudent Services Annex (SSA) AuditoriumFriday, August 11, 20231:30-2:30pmUniversity Recreation TourActivity Center (AB), Auxiliary GymFriday, August 11, 20233:00-4:00pmLearn How to Get a Texas Driver License or Texas I.D.Student Services Annex (SSA) AuditoriumWednesday, August 16, 202310-11amMcDermott Library TourMcDermott Library Main LobbyWednesday, August 16, 202311:30am-12:30pmOffice of Information Technology (OIT) PresentationJindal School of Management (JSOM) 1.118 AuditoriumWednesday, August 16, 20231:30-2:30pmUniversity Recreation TourActivity Center (AB), Auxiliary GymWednesday, August 16, 20233:00-4:00pmLearn How to Get a Texas Driver License or Texas I.D.Jindal School of Management (JSOM) 1.118 Auditorium
Virtual Information Sessions
ICP Team, in partnership with campus and off campus stakeholders, offers Virtual Information Sessions on a variety of topics that are beneficial to new international students in preparation for their successful arrival to UT Dallas. Registration is not required. Summer 2023 students are welcome to watch recorded Spring 2023 Virtual Information Sessions. Fall 2023 students are welcome to attend the scheduled Virtual Information Sessions (see table below).Please note that Virtual Information Sessions do not substitute for the International Student Orientation.
Objective
Students will learn how the ICP Team, campus and off campus stakeholders can assist them in preparation for their arrival to UT Dallas, complementing International Student Orientation.
Format
Live Microsoft Teams
Dates and Topics
DateTimeVirtual Information Sessions – Fall 2023Wednesday, June 7, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)Next Steps for Incoming International StudentsWednesday, June 14, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)Paying Your Tuition and FeesWednesday, June 21, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)UTD Big Howdy Wednesday, June 28, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)How the Office of Graduate Education Can Work for You Wednesday, July 5, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)Indian Student Association (ISA) OrientationWednesday, July 12, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)Friendship Association of Chinese Students and Scholars (FACSS) OrientationWednesday, July 19, 20239–10 a.m. (CST)Preparing for Life in Dallas
How to Access
Virtual sessions will be accessible via Live Microsoft Teams. Click the Virtual Information Session of your choice (table above) to see its description and to join the Teams’ session. The Virtual Information Sessions will be recorded and posted on YouTube. Please allow two (2) business days for videos to be uploaded to YouTube.
Notes:
Downloading Microsoft Teams to your desktop or laptop computer will provide the fastest access to the Information Sessions but is not required, as the events can be watched in your internet browser. The Microsoft Teams app is needed if you are joining from a mobile device.All audience members will be muted when entering the meeting and will have the opportunity to pose questions in writing via the “Q&A” function on the right side of the screen at the end of the presentation. Live closed captioning is available to all attendees. Please look for the CC button when you join the meeting.If you have questions related to technical issues during the event, please contact the UT Dallas Help Desk, via chat or telephonically at (+1) 972-883-2911
Times listed are in Central Standard Time (CST). You can use a World Clock Converter to find the exact time in your location.
Recommendations & Announcements
Transportation to International Student Orientation (ISO)
Comet Cruiser 883 buses (neighborhood bus service) start running at 7 a.m. every 9 minutes Monday through Thursday and every 12 minutes on Fridays. The 883 East and 883 East Express buses start running at 7 a.m. every 30 minutes. View the Comet Cruiser schedule online. Please, plan strategically an EARLY arrival to the International Student Orientation (ISO). ISO check-in starts 90 minutes and ends 30 minutes before the beginning of each ISO.
Students should board EARLY. The best way to minimize overloading is to arrive early. ICP does not recommend waiting for the last bus before the event since that will most likely be full and you will be late. Late arrival to ISO may prevent you from participation.
No pass, ID, payment, or fare is required for Comet Cruiser (883 buses).
Be sure to stand at the bus stop. The buses cannot stop anywhere except at the bus stop. Once the bus leaves the bus stop, it cannot stop again so you need to be at their stop early, and ready to board.
Avoid jaywalking to bus stops. Only cross roadways at pedestrian crosswalks to access bus stops (especially important for those living at 7421 at Frankford, and the Frankford Estates!).
The bus times listed on the website are DEPARTURE times, not arrival times. Students should be at their stop ~5 minutes early to avoid missing their bus.
No open food or drinks are allowed on the Comet Cruiser.
Location of the Orientation
ISO will take place in the Student Union Galaxy A, B, and C and Edith O’Donnell Arts & Technology Building (ATC) Lecture Hall. Please check the location of the ISO based on the confirmation email you received after registration. The campus map is available here.
Airport Pick Ups
Big Howdy will offer airport pick ups. If you require this service, submit your registration beginning [date to be announced].
Frequently Asked Questions
What topics are included in the in-person International Student Orientation session?
The in-person International Student Orientation session includes such topics as cultural shock, health and insurance, student’s conduct (Title IX, sexual misconduct, and academic success), campus safety, U.S. academic culture, maintaining immigration status, among others.
How long will it take to complete International Student Orientation?
Pre-Arrival Modules: 30 to 45 minutes
In-Person Orientation Session: half-day session (about 4 hours)
Will I be required to have DUO authentication to login to eLearning to complete Pre-Arrival Modules?
Effective Monday, May 23, 2022, DUO authentication will be required for students who have not enrolled in academic courses. If you have questions or concerns regarding DUO authentication, please contact the OIT Helpdesk by live chat at oit.utdallas.edu/helpdesk or call at (972) 883-2911.
Is a negative COVID-19 test result required in order to attend in-person International Student Orientation?
Students are not required to show proof of COVID-19 test results or vaccinations to attend International Student Orientation. However, UTD recommends that students follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)’s guidelines for international travel. Students are encouraged to consult regularly the UTD Covid-19 Response webpage for institutional updates and guidelines.
How much does International Student Orientation cost?
The International Student Orientation fee is $50 USD, which is applied automatically in the student’s UTD account. The cost covers the following (this is an institutional scale operation): The Guide (annual publication for new international students), ICP portfolio, including campus resources, meals, extended UT Dallas Comet cruise bus services, airport pickup buses, ISO supplies, among others.
How can I change my International Orientation session?
You can resubmit the International Student Orientation registration form in Orion and select a new session at least 24 hours after submitting your first registration form. Please see the International Student Orientation Registration Instructions.
My chosen orientation date is not available in Orion, why not?
If the date you would like to attend International Student Orientation is not showing in Orion, then that date is already at full capacity for attendance. Please choose an alternative date to attend. Additionally, you can continue to check back as dates may become available as other students may change their orientation. See the International Student Orientation Registration Instructions.
What happens if I do not complete the International Student Orientation?
If you do not complete the Pre-Arrival Modules and International Student Orientation, a hold will be assigned to your UTD account, effective the first day of classes, restricting you to register in the following academic term.
Are the Tuberculosis Test (TB test) and Meningitis Vaccination required?
The TB test is mandatory for all students born outside of the United States. Students will take their TB test when they arrive in the U.S.
Spring 2023 International Students: Students will receive a detailed message a day after registering for International Student Orientation, including a link to select date and time to schedule their TB test appointment.
Spring 2023 Freshman and Transfer International Students: Students should schedule their TB test using this link after December 1.
To learn more about the TB requirement, visit the Student Health Center immunizations webpage. Contact the Student Health Center for any questions regarding the TB test requirement.
All students that are under the age of 22 are required to receive the meningitis vaccination. For questions regarding this requirement, please contact the Office of the Registrar.
Do I need health insurance?
Health insurance is required for all F-1, F-2, J-1, and J-2 international students. You can find more information on the Student Health Insurance webpage. Students may be eligible for a health insurance waiver if they satisfy the Student Health Insurance’s requirements. For more information, consult the Student Health Insurance webpage, section of waivers.
What is a hold and how can I remove it?
Holds on your student account prevent you from registering for classes. To view all holds on your account, use your Net-ID and Password to login to Galaxy. In your “Orion Student Center” you can click on “Holds” and view all existing holds on your account. If you click on each individual hold, you can get more information about which department has put the hold on your account and why. The department that puts your hold on is the only department that can take the hold off.
When do I have to pay for tuition?
You will receive a tuition and fee bill after registering for classes. For more information regarding tuition and fees please visit the Bursar Office webpage. For information about payment deadlines view the Academic Calendar for Spring.
What are UTD policies concerning face masks, international travel, and COVID-19 vaccinations?
Face masks: UTD encourages members of the University community to wear face masks and follow the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s guidelines for the use of masks. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott’s Executive Order GA-36 prohibits governmental entities from requiring or mandating mask wearing. We highly recommend wearing a face mask for International Student Orientation.
International travel: Please note that effective June 12, 2022, all nonimmigrant, non-citizen air travelers to the United States will not be required a negative COVID-19 test result prior to boarding an airplane to the U.S. All nonimmigrant, non-citizen air travelers to the United States will continue being required to be fully vaccinated and provide proof of vaccination status against COVID-19 prior to boarding an airplane to the U.S. For more information, please consult the U.S. Department of State (DOS) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Vaccination: The COVID-19 vaccination is not mandatory at UTD. However, UTD faculty, staff and students are highly encouraged to get vaccinated against COVID-19 as soon as possible. Students can book an appointment through a vaccine provider. UTD asks fully-vaccinated faculty, staff and students to register their vaccination status through the UT Dallas voluntary vaccine reporting tool.
I am concerned about travel restrictions due to COVID-19, can I enroll in courses online?
For questions regarding enrollment options in the event of travel restrictions, please contact your graduate or undergraduate program advisor. To find your program advisor please visit the Academic Programs website: utdallas.edu/academics. Click on your major and degree level. This will take you to an information page about your degree program, and will include department contact information.
Where can I obtain resources such as pre arrival and post arrival check lists, housing, travel guides, webinars, and the new student guide?
New international students are encouraged to consult the Intercultural Programs (ICP) webpage, section of pre-arrival resources.
The University of Texas at Dallas
Intercultural Programs
800 West Campbell Rd.
Richardson, Texas 75080
972‑883‑4528
