Attend UTD - Military and Veteran Center | The University of Texas at Dallas
Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Footer
Military and Veteran Center
Search for:
Military and Veteran Center
Vets Guide to Apply |
What We Offer |
What We Offer
Community Service
Green Zone
In the media
Military Community Advocates
MVC Community Advisory Council
PAVE
Scholarships
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Sports Passes
UTD Guard and Reserve Students
Student Veterans Association
Veteran Advisory Council
Resources |
Facilities |
Donate |
Contact Us |
Search for:
Attend UTD
Students displaying their red, white and blue honor cords.
Military and Veteran Center
The veteran and military-affiliated student population at UT Dallas continues to grow each year. Recognizing the importance of community for veterans, the University established the Military and Veteran Center (MVC) in September 2012. Since that time, the MVC’s role has continued to identify ways to support our students.
Please contact the MVC if we can provide additional information or assistance.
We are pleased that you are considering UTD. The University of Texas at Dallas offers exceptional academic programs and is invested in the success of student veterans and military-affiliated students.
Veteran and Military-Affiliated Student Guides
These lists will guide you through several stages: pre-admissions, applying, and admittance.
Before You Apply
Optional Steps
(Optional) Contact the Military and Veteran Center. Schedule a virtual appointment by emailing veterans@utdallas.edu. MVC staff meet one-on-one with prospective student veterans and military-affiliated students to provide guidance and information about the admissions process.
(Optional) Learn more about UT Dallas by contacting a Pre-Admissions Counselor.
(Optional) Visit the campus: Preview Friday, Scholars’ Day, campus tour.
Determine Eligibility for Benefits
Determine your eligibility for federal education benefits. Visit the Department of Veterans Affairs – Benefits website for information and apply online for VA benefits. Examine the housing stipend (ZIP code: 75080) and the book stipend for Post-9/11 GI Bill.
Determine your eligibility for Texas education benefits for veterans and their dependents. Visit the Texas Veterans Commission website to determine eligibility for the Hazlewood Act.
Understand residency requirements if using veteran benefits at UT Dallas: VA benefits or Hazlewood. Email veteransbenefits@utdallas.edu for questions.
Explore additional veteran and military family exemptions and waivers in Texas.
Planning to enroll while on active duty or actively drilling? Contact your installation’s education office/counselor or Educational Services Officer (ESO) for additional assistance.
Transfer Tools
If you have taken college coursework outside of UT Dallas, you can search transfer equivalencies by the institution you attended to determine how your courses could potentially transfer to UT Dallas. Generally, college coursework requires a completion grade of C (2.0 on a 4.0 point scale) or higher to be considered for transfer credit.
(Optional) Explore the transfer plans for UT Dallas.
Apply
Be sure to apply by the Transfer Student or Freshman deadline to guarantee a decision is made on your application in time to register for classes.
Visit the admission pages for Transfer Students or Freshmen for more information regarding admission requirements.
Undergraduates complete online applications at GoApplyTexas.org. Graduates apply at the online graduate admission webpage. Before submitting your application, please select “Request fee waiver” on the final page of the ApplyTexas application or select that you will pay by cash/check. Veteran and military service members may be eligible for a $50 application fee waiver by providing one of the following documents:
Valid military ID
DD214, including character of service
Driver’s license indicating veteran designation
Documents to verify your military service can be uploaded using the Application Fee Waiver Submission form in Galaxy, under Orion Self-Service, Admission Forms Folder. For additional application fee/waiver-related questions, please contact admission-fee@utdallas.edu.
Submit all required documents (transcripts, etc.) to complete your application.
After applying, check your personal email for instructions on how to set up your Galaxy account.
Check your admission status online using your Galaxy account. Please allow 4-6 weeks to receive a decision on your application.
Apply for federal financial aid using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), even if you are receiving veteran benefits.
If you have a total or permanent disability, you may be eligible for loan forgiveness. Go to the Federal Student Aid webpage for more information.
Once Admitted
Admissions
See the steps after admission for Transfer Student or Freshman.
Schedule to attend an orientation: Transfer Student or Freshman.
Veteran Information Session
During Transfer Orientation, attend the “Veteran Information Session” where you will tour the Military and Veteran Center, learn about MVC programs and meet VA/Hazlewood coordinators.
Register for classes when you meet with your academic advisor during orientation.
(Optional) Submit a request to receive transfer credit for military training once you’ve met with your academic advisor: Petition to Use Military Credit.
Financial Aid and Benefit Certification
Contact the Office of Financial Aid to process your veteran benefits. Required paperwork will depend on the type of benefit (VA or Hazlewood).
If your income has changed from what was reported on the FAFSA, consider filling out the Special Circumstances Cover Sheet. For example, when leaving military employment to return to school, your income changes and the situation can be reviewed by UT Dallas financial aid administrators. Download the form from the forms webpage for the corresponding aid year.
Undergraduate veterans receiving VA or Hazlewood benefits will automatically receive priority registration. If you served in the military but are not on benefits, apply for priority registration (pdf).
Additional Steps
Explore scholarships offered to UT Dallas students.
(Optional) Apply for on-campus housing.
(Optional) Meet with the AccessAbility Resource Center.
Get your Comet Card ID at the Comet Card Office in the Student Services Addition Building after registering for classes.
Purchase your UT Dallas parking permit(s) or obtain a free DART Pass. Note the provision for disabled veteran (DV) plates in Texas.
Visit the Military and Veteran Center’s Resources webpage.
Attend the MVC’s Welcome Lunch at the beginning of the Fall/Spring Semester.
The University of Texas at Dallas
Military and Veteran Center
Student Services Addition, SSA 14.250
Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m.
veterans@utdallas.edu
972-883-4913
Tweets by UTDallasVeteran
